Coop noopener allow popups (#36232)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/headers/cross-origin-opener-policy/index.md

{{HTTPSidebar}}

> The HTTP **`Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy`** (COOP) response header allows you to ensure a top-level document does not share a {{glossary("Browsing context","browsing context group")}} with cross-origin documents.
> 
> COOP will process-isolate your document and potential attackers can't access your global object if they were to open it in a popup, preventing a set of cross-origin attacks dubbed [XS-Leaks](https://github.com/xsleaks/xsleaks).
> 
> If a cross-origin document with COOP is opened in a new window, the opening document will not have a reference to it, and the [`window.opener`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/opener) property of the new window will be `null`.
> This allows you to have more control over references to a window than [`rel=noopener`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/rel/noopener), which only affects outgoing navigations.

Reviewer: Still thinking about this. What I don't like about it is that it is written to assume that you only want to ensure your top level document does not share BCG with a top level document. Actually you have much more flexibility than that.
Currently thinking along the lines of

```suggestion
The HTTP **`Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy`** (COOP) {{glossary("response header")}} allows a website to control whether a new top-level document is opened in the same {{glossary("Browsing context","browsing context group")}} or in a new context group.

When opened in a new browsing context group, any references between new document its opener are removed, and the new document may be process-isolated from its opener.
This ensures that potential attackers can't access the global object of your document using the value returned by {{domxref("Window.open()")}}, when it is opened as a popup, preventing a set of cross-origin attacks dubbed [XS-Leaks](https://github.com/xsleaks/xsleaks).
It also means that any object opened by your document in a new browser context group can't access your code using [`window.opener`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/opener).
This allows you to have more control over references to a window than [`rel=noopener`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/rel/noopener), which only affects outgoing navigations.

The opening behaviour is based on the policies of both the new document and its opener, and whether the new document is opened following a navigation or is launched as a popup.

Generally you should set your policies such that only same-origin and trusted cross-origin resources that need to be able to script each other should be allowed to be opened in the same browser context group.
Other resources should be cross-origin isolated in their own group.
```

Reviewer: Thanks. I did a minor modification plus your suggestions.

    A document with `same-origin` will always open a document with `unsafe-none` in a new BCG.

- `same-origin`

  - : The document permits loading into BCGs that use COOP and contain only same-origin documents.
    This is used to provide [cross-origin isolation](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/crossOriginIsolated) for a BCG.

    Documents with `same-origin` will only open and be opened in the same BCG if both documents are same-origin and have the `same-origin` directive.

- `same-origin-allow-popups`

  - : This is similar to [`same-origin`](#same-origin) directive, except that it allows the opening of documents using {{domxref("Window.open()")}} in the same BCG if they have a COOP value of `unsafe-none`.

    The directive is used to relax the `same-origin` restriction for integrations where a document needs the benefits of cross-origin isolation but also needs to open and retain a reference to trusted cross-origin documents.
    For example, when using a cross-origin service for OAuth or payments.

    A document with this directive can open a document in the same BCG using {{domxref("Window.open()")}} if it has a COOP value of `unsafe-none`.

>     In this case it does not matter if the opened document is cross-site or same-site, and the original document remains "cross-origin isolated".

Author: This contradicts line 26 in files/en-us/web/api/window/crossoriginisolated/index.md

Reading through the [relevant HTML spec language](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#browsing-context-group-switches-due-to-cross-origin-opener-policy:coop-same-origin-plus-coep) seems to indicate that the previous reference is correct, and `ame-origin-allow-popups` doesn't provide cross origin isolation capabilities.

Reviewer: That is actually a relief, because it doesn't feel safe. I will just delete that comment here.

```suggestion
    In this case it does not matter if the opened document is cross-site or same-site.
```

Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: unsafe-none
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin-allow-popups
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: noopener-allow-popups
```

### Directives

> - `unsafe-none`

Reviewer: @yoavweiss I have rewritten the directive section - can you please check it. This was a big part of my issue with the doc - this section didn't feel accurate or complete - in particular when we know that the behaviour depends on the directive values of both the opener and opened doc. Hence all my problems asking you whether there is a BCG switch in each case.

Note that I started this by generating two tables below:

#### NAVIGATIONS:

BCG Switch if:

| Opener (row) / Opened (col) | `unsafe-none` | `same-origin-allow-popups` | `same-origin`      | `noopener-allow-popups` |
| --------------------------- | ------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------ | ----------------------- |
| `unsafe-none`               | O             | New                        | New                | New                     |
| `same-origin-allow-popups`  | New           | Old if same-origin         | Old if same-origin | New                     |
| `same-origin`               | New           | Old if same-origin         | Old if same-origin | New                     |
| `noopener-allow-popups`     | New           | Old if same-origin         | Old if same-origin | New                     |

This is based on opener policy:

- Match: if both or neither are `unsafe-none` and they are same-origin (Diff: if just one is `unsafe-none` OR if they are cross origin).

#### POPUPS

BGC Switch

| Opener (row) / Opened (col) | `unsafe-none` | `same-origin-allow-popups` | `same-origin`      | `noopener-allow-popups` |
| --------------------------- | ------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------ | ----------------------- |
| `unsafe-none`               | Old           | New                        | New                | New                     |
| `same-origin-allow-popups`  | Old           | Old if same-origin         | Old if same-origin | New                     |
| `same-origin`               | New           | Old if same-origin         | Old if same-origin | New                     |
| `noopener-allow-popups`     | Old           | Old if same-origin         | Old if same-origin | New                     |

Based on switch if:

- True: opened `noopener-allow-popups`
- FALSE: If opener `same-origin-allow-popups` or `noopener-allow-popups`" AND opened is `unsafe-none`
- false if match: if both or neither are `unsafe-none` and they are same-origin
- Return true.

Reviewer: PS, I think we're getting there!

Reviewer: > Navigations value for "noopener-allow-popups"=>"noopener-allow-popups" should be "old if same-origin".

@yoavweiss  That's true if you only look at the matching algorithm since neither is `unsafe-none`, but the definition of [coop-noopener-allow-popups](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/browsers.html#coop-noopener-allow-popups) says:

> This forces the creation of a new [top-level browsing context](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/document-sequences.html#top-level-browsing-context) for the document, regardless of its predecessor.

Are you saying I ignore those definitions up the top - they are just aspirational?

Reviewer: > Popups & navigations values for "noopener-allow-popups"=>"same-origin-allow-popups" and "noopener-allow-popups"=>"same-origin" should be "new".

Rules seem to be ...

Switch if:
~True: opened noopener-allow-popups~ doesn't apply
~FALSE: If `opener same-origin-allow-popups` or `noopener-allow-popups` AND opened is `unsafe-none`~ - doesn't apply
false if match: if both or neither are unsafe-none and they are same-origin **=> They match if same-origin right, so shouldn't they be in old in `same-origin`**
Return true.

What am I missing?

Reviewer: > The processing model is the part that determines the actual behavior. I guess we should modify the definition description to indicate that this is only true for the popup case..

Absolutely. 

I'm sorry to put you through this again, but I'm confused because some of the [statements you made above](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36232/files#r1820157338) don't follow the process model you pointed to. 

#### Navigations

For navigations, BCG switch is always based on matching and happens if they don't match
- Match: if both or neither are unsafe-none and they are same-origin 
- (Different.: if just one is unsafe-none OR if they are cross origin).

1. Please confirm that is correct ^^^ for all directives

So when you say:

> Popups & navigations values for "noopener-allow-popups"=>"same-origin-allow-popups" and "noopener-allow-popups"=>"same-origin" should be "new".

2. For **navigations** - neither are `unsafe-none` so shouldn't it be same BCG if the pages are same-origin? (not new)

> Navigations value for "noopener-allow-popups"=>"noopener-allow-popups" should be "old if same-origin".

That seems correct for **navigations** - neither are `unsafe-none` so they match if same-origin - so "old if same-origin"

#### Popups

Popups is always based on https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/browsers.html#check-browsing-context-group-switch-coop-value-popup

3. Correct? There isn't somewhere else I should be looking to work out whether there is a BCG switch?

That spec translates to:

Switch if:
- True: opened `noopener-allow-popups`
- false: If "opener same-origin-allow-popups" or "noopener-allow-popups" AND opened is "unsafe-none"
- false if match: if both or neither are "unsafe-none" and they are same-origin
- Return true.

So when you say

> Popups & navigations values for "noopener-allow-popups"=>"same-origin-allow-popups" and "noopener-allow-popups"=>"same-origin" should be "new".

For popups the first two criteria don't apply - the opened is not `noopener-allow-popups` and the opened is not `unsafe-none`.
So this is purely down to a match, and in this case  they match if same origin - so you would only switch in popups if the documents were cross origin.

Reviewer: @yoavweiss  These are the tables that come out of above assumptions. If ^^^ is wrong, then perhaps we could close this discussion by you updating the tables and I include them in the docs. Not as good as me understanding it of course.

#### NAVIGATIONS

Old or New BCG

| Opener (row) / Opened (col) | `unsafe-none` | `same-origin-allow-popups` | `same-origin`      | `noopener-allow-popups` |
| --------------------------- | ------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------ | ----------------------- |
| `unsafe-none`               | Old           | New                        | New                | New                     |
| `same-origin-allow-popups`  | New           | Old if same-origin         | Old if same-origin | Old if same-origin      |
| `same-origin`               | New           | Old if same-origin         | Old if same-origin | Old if same-origin      |
| `noopener-allow-popups`     | New           | Old if same-origin         | Old if same-origin | Old if same-origin      |

This is based on opener policy:

- Match (same BCG): if both are unsafe-none, or if neither are unsafe-none and they are same-origin.
- Different (new BCG).: if just one is unsafe-none, OR neither are unsafe-none but they are cross-origin.

#### POPUPS

Old or New BCG

| Opener (row) / Opened (col) | `unsafe-none` | `same-origin-allow-popups` | `same-origin`      | `noopener-allow-popups` |
| --------------------------- | ------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------ | ----------------------- |
| `unsafe-none`               | Old           | New                        | New                | New                     |
| `same-origin-allow-popups`  | Old           | Old if same-origin         | Old if same-origin | New                     |
| `same-origin`               | New           | Old if same-origin         | Old if same-origin | New                     |
| `noopener-allow-popups`     | Old           | Old if same-origin         | Old if same-origin | New                     |

Switch (new BCG)
- True: opened `noopener-allow-popups`
- false: If "opener same-origin-allow-popups" or "noopener-allow-popups" AND opened is "unsafe-none"
- false if match
  - Match (same BCG): if both are unsafe-none, or if neither are unsafe-none and they are same-origin.
  - Different (new BCG).: if just one is unsafe-none, OR neither are unsafe-none but they are cross-origin.
- Return true.

Author: > false if match: if both or neither are "unsafe-none" and they are same-origin **=> They match if same-origin right, so shouldn't they be in old in "same-origin"** Return true.
> 
> What am I missing?

Step 3 in the matching algorithm:
"If documentCOOP is responseCOOP and documentOrigin is [same origin](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/browsers.html#same-origin) with responseOrigin, then return true."

In those cases `documentCOOP` != `responseCOOP`, so matching returns false.

Author: > * Match (same BCG): if both are unsafe-none, or if neither are unsafe-none and they are same-origin.

Same as above, this is not correct because the condition is not only for "same origin", but also for "same COOP value".

So a correct statement would be:
"Match: if both are `unsafe-none`, or if (neither are `unsafe-none` and they are same-origin and both policy values are identical)"

Reviewer 2: Thank you both for these improvements 👏🏻

Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: unsafe-none
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin-allow-popups
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: noopener-allow-popups
```

### Directives

- `unsafe-none`

  - : The document permits sharing its browsing context group with any other document, and may therefore be unsafe.
    It is used to opt-out a document from using COOP for process isolation.
    This is the default value.

    A new document with this value will only be opened into the same BCG as its opener if:

    - the opener also has a COOP value of either `unsafe-none`, or it has no COOP directive.
    - the document is being opened in a popup and the opener has a value of `same-origin-allow-popups` or `noopener-allow-popups`.

    Similarly, a document with this value will itself open new documents in the same BCG if they also have a COOP value of `unsafe-none` (or no COOP directive).

- `same-origin-allow-popups`

>   - : The document permits loading into BCGs that contain only same-origin documents opened in navigations, and documents with a COOP of `unsafe-none` opened via popups (or no COOP directive).

Reviewer: For each of these I've tried to explain the use case it addresses - not sure about this? Why is it useful to allow popups, and why is it worth doing when presumably it breaks that cross-origin isolation?

Author: ^^ @camillelamy

>   - : The document permits loading into BCGs that contain only same-origin documents opened in navigations, and documents with a COOP of `unsafe-none` (or no COOP directive) opened via popups.

Author: Regarding a use-case here, I found https://web.dev/articles/cross-origin-isolation-guide#:~:text=To%20mitigate%20this%20problem%2C%20we,these%20new%20modes%20are%20available.

Reviewer: Thank you. Addressed in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36232/commits/406e056d8ab6e9284a47e8178655ac00ebab2ec4

I guess it makes sense - the service is unlikely to be same origin, but you kind of have to trust it, and you also want cross-origin isolation to reduce the chance of opening other unexpected resources via navigation.

  - : Retains references to newly opened windows or tabs that either don't set COOP or that opt out of isolation by setting a COOP of `unsafe-none`.
- `same-origin`
  - : Isolates the browsing context exclusively to same-origin documents. Cross-origin documents are not loaded in the same browsing context.
- `noopener-allow-popups`

>   - : Severs the opener connection and isolates the browsing context for the current document regardless of the opener document's origin.

Reviewer: Maybe we could spell it out - is this better and accurate?
```suggestion
  - : Severs the opener connection to the new document, isolating the browsing context for the current document regardless of the opener document's origin.
    This ensures that the opener can't run scripts in the opened documents even if they are same origin.
```

>   - : Retains references to newly opened windows or tabs that either don't set COOP or that opt out of isolation by setting a COOP of `unsafe-none`.

Reviewer: The rule as described in the explainer was that for two documents with COOP to be loaded in the same browsing group they both have to have the same directive. If that directive is same-origin they further both have to actually be same-origin.

My interpretation of this directive is that is that the rule has been relaxed. This exists to allow document to load another document in the same origin even if it hasn't specified that that it uses COOP or it has specified that it allows `unsafe-none`. Is that right.

So if my page is served with `same-origin-allow-popups` and it opens a window or tab that does not have COOP or has COOP of `unsafe-none` AND the opened document is in the same-origin it will be opened in the same context. 

What does "retains references" mean? Presumably it means you can send postMessage etc? Are you cross-origin isolated and therefore in a context where this will return true? https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/crossOriginIsolated

Reviewer: If a document has `same-origin-allow-popups` what can it be opened by? My guess is pages that have `same-origin-allow-popups`  or `same-origin` ? If you tried to open this with `unsafe-none` document the page would be loaded in a new context right?

Author: ^^ @camillelamy to keep me honest

The difference between `same-origin-allow-popups` and `same-origin` is in their behavior when it comes to popups. 

Regular navigations have to [match](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/browsers.html#matching-coop), which means that same-origin navigations would be allocated to the same BCG unless only one of them is `unsafe-none`.

When [opening a popup](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/browsers.html#check-browsing-context-group-switch-coop-value-popup), a switch is not required if we're navigating from `same-origin-allow-popups` to `unsafe-none`, or when there's a match.

"retains references" means that the opener document can directly script the opened document, and vice versa. It's (in some ways) the inverse of cross-origin isolated.

Author: If `unsafe-none` opens a `sameorigin-allow-popups`, they don't [match](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/browsers.html#matching-coop) and hence that would trigger a BCG swap (they will not retain references).

Reviewer: Makes sense thanks. If `sameorigin` opens `sameorigin-allow-popups` they don't match, so that would tripper a BCG swap right?

Author: `sameorigin` => `sameorigin-allow-popups` where they are both on the same origin do [match](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#matching-coop) as none of them is `unsafe-none` and they have the same origin.

- `same-origin`
  - : Isolates the browsing context exclusively to same-origin documents. Cross-origin documents are not loaded in the same browsing context.
- `noopener-allow-popups`
  - : Severs the opener connection to the new document, isolating the browsing context for the current document regardless of the opener document's origin.

>     This ensures that the opener can't run scripts in the opened documents even if they are same origin.

Reviewer: 1. So if a document is served with this directive it will always be put into a new browsing context group irrespective of the origins of either file and the COOP setting of the opener.
2. If a document served with this directive attempts to open another document that has  `unsafe-none` (or no COOP) will it open in the same group? I assume so, but not for the other directives right?
3. After opening in its own group presumably the popup would return true for https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/crossOriginIsolated ? But I am confused by this explainer text:
4. The opener with window.open() would get Window.closed = true - right, and the opened popup would have no reference back to its opener.

I wonder if we should make statements like "3" and "4" here?

What I definitely think we need (still) is an example for this case. Part of that should outline that this is not a silver bullet, and expand on these things https://gist.github.com/yoavweiss/c7b61e97e6f8d207be619f87ab96ead5?permalink_comment_id=5085511#gistcomment-5085511

Can you do that.

Author: > 1. So if a document is served with this directive it will always be put into a new browsing context group irrespective of the origins of either file and the COOP setting of the opener.

Yes.

> 2\. If a document served with this directive attempts to open another document that has  `unsafe-none` (or no COOP) will it open in the same group? I assume so, but not for the other directives right?

Yes, for [popups](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#check-browsing-context-group-switch-coop-value-popup), but not for navigations.

> 3\. After opening in its own group presumably the popup would return true for https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/crossOriginIsolated ?

I believe so. ^^@camillelamy

> 4\. The opener with window.open() would get Window.closed = true - right, and the opened popup would have no reference back to its opener.

Yeah.

> What I definitely think we need (still) is an example for this case. Part of that should outline that this is not a silver bullet, and expand on these things https://gist.github.com/yoavweiss/c7b61e97e6f8d207be619f87ab96ead5?permalink_comment_id=5085511#gistcomment-5085511
> 
> Can you do that.

I can take that on, yeah.

Author: Added an example. Let me know if it works

Reviewer: Thanks @yoavweiss - the example is unlike other examples typically in the HTTP, but I think it is sensible. I'm still wrapping my head around the whole thing but I might do a minor restructure of that.

Yet more questions. Apologies for this - I appreciate they might seem very dumb. I come from a mobile OS which had precise meanings for terms that seem to differ from browsers. MOst of the time it doesn't matter, but for stuff like this it does.

1. The terminology in particular I'm concerned about is window, tab, popup, navigation. I want to be sure we share a language and MDN is not very helpful here.
   - Window and Tab are in particular confusing. IN "OS land" I think of a Window as a a discrete UI element that maps to an application and might contain tabs. However Chrome, for example, allows you to have a window that has a bunch of tabs that can be moved together, and in and out of that window. Its now clear how these apply to the terms Window and Tab in terms of top level browsing context and COOP.
   - Popup to me means something like a modal dialog.
   - BUT I **think** here we are using window, tab, and popup synonymously to represent a top level browsing context - i.e. a single top level document - it doesn't have to be modal, and might not be. The main difference is that a popup is launched by  `Window.open()` and the opener potentially (COOP dependent) retains a connection to the opened doc. Navigation opens a doc, possibly in the same browser context group, and that defines whether the opener is populated in the new doc. Right?

2. Based on your comment we should make it clear that this isn't just "severs opener connection" but "severs connections between opener and opened".

>> 2. If a document served with this directive attempts to open another document that has unsafe-none (or no COOP) will it open in the same group? I assume so, but not for the other directives right?

> Yes, for [popups](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#check-browsing-context-group-switch-coop-value-popup), but not for navigations.

This is so non-intuitive - thanks for the links on opening and matching. They help but I keep getting tangled  :-(. Note, I'm mentally equating "in another context" to both opener and opened doc having `null` relationships to each other. Hope that is correct. I think it works like this for all cases:

Document with 

- Navigations and popups to create a new document served with `noopener-allow-popups`: always open in new context so the relationship is severed.
- A document served with `noopener-allow-popups` navigates to a doc with:
  - `unsafe-none` - I think this breaks because they have a different opener policy (different directives and one is `unsafe-none`) - so the new doc would be in its own context and have severed relationship.
  - `same-origin-allow-popups` and `same-origin-allow-popups` - I think they match if the documents are same-origin. Otherwise they'd be severed.
  - `nooopener-allow-popups` - The new doc always in its own context, so relationshiop severed.
- A document served with `noopener-allow-popups` opens a popup with:
  - `unsafe-none` - I think this is new context because they have a different opener policy (different directives one of which is unsafe-none) 
  - `same-origin-allow-popups` and `same-origin-allow-popups` - I think they match if the documents are same-origin. Otherwise they'd be severed.
  - `nooopener-allow-popups` - The new doc always in its own context

Is any of that right? ^^^

3. >> . After opening in its own group presumably the popup would return true for https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/crossOriginIsolated ?

   > I believe so. ^^@camillelamy

   I think so too, because the cases where cross-origin are allowed are always severed when loading (as in the worked through example above).
   But also depends on COEP value.

Author: > The terminology in particular I'm concerned about is window, tab, popup, navigation. I want to be sure we share a language and MDN is not very helpful here.
> 
> * Window and Tab are in particular confusing. IN "OS land" I think of a Window as a a discrete UI element that maps to an application and might contain tabs. However Chrome, for example, allows you to have a window that has a bunch of tabs that can be moved together, and in and out of that window. Its now clear how these apply to the terms Window and Tab in terms of top level browsing context and COOP.
> * Popup to me means something like a modal dialog.
> * BUT I **think** here we are using window, tab, and popup synonymously to represent a top level browsing context - i.e. a single top level document - it doesn't have to be modal, and might not be. The main difference is that a popup is launched by  `Window.open()` and the opener potentially (COOP dependent) retains a connection to the opened doc. Navigation opens a doc, possibly in the same browser context group, and that defines whether the opener is populated in the new doc. Right?

You're right about "popup" being anything opened by `window.open()`, which can be in a separate "OS window", a separate "tab" or a smaller "popup".

Navigation is the process of opening a document, either in a popup or to replace the current active document. 

> 2\. Based on your comment we should make it clear that this isn't just "severs opener connection" but "severs connections between opener and opened".

Yeah, good call.

> Note, I'm mentally equating "in another context" to both opener and opened doc having `null` relationships to each other.

There's some disagreement between implementations on whether they should be "null" or "closed" https://github.com/whatwg/html/issues/10457

> * Navigations and popups to create a new document served with `noopener-allow-popups`: always open in new context so the relationship is severed.

Yup

> A document served with `noopener-allow-popups` navigates to a doc with:
> * `unsafe-none` - I think this breaks because they have a different opener policy (different directives and one is `unsafe-none`) - so the new doc would be in its own context and have severed relationship.

When navigating the document, that would end up in a separate BCG, because the matching algorithm would fail. (only one of the policies is "unsafe-none")

> * `same-origin-allow-popups` and `same-origin-allow-popups` - I think they match if the documents are same-origin. Otherwise they'd be severed.

They don't match as the policies are not identical, so that would result in a BCG swap.

> * `nooopener-allow-popups` - The new doc always in its own context, so relationshiop severed.

For the navigation case, the policies would match so there will be no BCG swap. (the opener relationship was already severed previously, when the first "noopener-allow-popups" document was opened)

Author: > A document served with `noopener-allow-popups` opens a popup with:
> * `unsafe-none` - I think this is new context because they have a different opener policy (different directives one of which is unsafe-none)

Step 2 in [check BCG switch for popups](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#check-browsing-context-group-switch-coop-value-popup) means that this will not result in a BCG switch. (that's the "allow popups" part of "noopener-allow-popups")

> * `same-origin-allow-popups` and `same-origin-allow-popups` - I think they match if the documents are same-origin. Otherwise they'd be severed.

That would result in a BCG switch, as matching would fail.

> * `nooopener-allow-popups` - The new doc always in its own context

Yup.

- A chat application at `/chat` that enables any user to contact any other user and send them messages.
- A password management application at `/passwords` that contains all of the user's passwords, across different services.

The administrators of the "passwords" application would very much like to ensure that it can't be directly scripted by the "chat" app, which by its nature has a larger XSS surface.
The "right way" to isolate these applications would be to host them on different origins, but in some cases that's not possible, and those two applications have to be on a single origin for historical, business, or branding reasons.

The `Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: noopener-allow-popups` header can be used to ensure that a document can't be scripted by a document that opens it.

If `example.com/passwords` is served with `noopener-allow-popups` the handle returned by {{domxref("Window.open()")}} will be `null`, so the opener can't script the passwords app:

```js
const handle = window.open("example.com/passwords", "passwordTab");
if (!handle) {
  // The handle is null so the new window can't be scripted.
}

> ```

Reviewer: I've swapped example around a little to make it easier to read, but it is essentially the same. A sanity check would be good please, in particular to confirm this is what  you'd see.

All done I think bar review, and possibly an update to `Window.open()`

Author: See my comment above on the null behavior, https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/closed is a better way to know if you have access to the windowProxy or not

Note that this alone is not a sufficient security measure:
They would also need to do the following:

- Use Fetch Metadata to block same-origin requests to the more-sensitive app that are not navigation requests.
- Ensure their authentication cookies are all `HttpOnly`.
- Ensure root-level Service-Workers are not installed by the less-sensitive app.

> - Ensure that `postMessage` or `BroadcastMessage` on the more-sensitive app don't expose any sensitive information the any other same-origin app.

Reviewer: What is BroadcastMessage? Is that BroadcastChannel?

Reviewer: I'm making that assumption.
```suggestion
- Ensure that `postMessage` or `BroadcastChannel` on the more-sensitive app don't expose any sensitive information the any other same-origin app.
```

}
```

### Severing the opener relationship

Consider a hypothetical origin `example.com` that has two very different applications on the same origin:

- A chat application at `/chat` that enables any user to contact any other user and send them messages.
- A password management application at `/passwords` that contains all of the user's passwords, across different services.

The administrators of the "passwords" application would very much like to ensure that it can't be directly scripted by the "chat" app, which by its nature has a larger XSS surface.
The "right way" to isolate these applications would be to host them on different origins, but in some cases that's not possible, and those two applications have to be on a single origin for historical, business, or branding reasons.

The `Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: noopener-allow-popups` header can be used to ensure that a document can't be scripted by a document that opens it.

> If `example.com/passwords` is served with `noopener-allow-popups` the handle returned by {{domxref("Window.open()")}} will be `null`, so the opener can't script the passwords app:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `example.com/passwords` is served with `noopener-allow-popups` the handle returned by {{domxref("Window.open()")}} will indicate that the windows is closed ({{domxref("Window.closed")}}), so the opener can't script the passwords app:
```

```js
const handle = window.open("example.com/passwords", "passwordTab");

> if (!handle) {
>   // The handle is null so the new window can't be scripted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if (windowProxy.closed) {
  // The new window is closed so it can't be scripted.
```
